<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Epilogue</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="epilogue" epub:type="epilogue z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Epilogue</h2>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Spoken by a Dancer.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>First my fear; then my courtesy; last my speech.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My fear is, your displeasure; my courtesy, my duty;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>and my speech, to beg your pardons. If you look</span>
								<br/>
								<span>for a good speech now, you undo me: for what I have</span>
								<br/>
								<span>to say is of mine own making; and what indeed I</span>
								<br/>
								<span>should say will, I doubt, prove mine own marring.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But to the purpose, and so to the venture. Be it</span>
								<br/>
								<span>known to you, as it is very well, I was lately here</span>
								<br/>
								<span>in the end of a displeasing play, to pray your</span>
								<br/>
								<span>patience for it and to promise you a better. I</span>
								<br/>
								<span>meant indeed to pay you with this; which, if like an</span>
								<br/>
								<span>ill venture it come unluckily home, I break, and</span>
								<br/>
								<span>you, my gentle creditors, lose. Here I promised you</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I would be and here I commit my body to your</span>
								<br/>
								<span>mercies: bate me some and I will pay you some and,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>as most debtors do, promise you infinitely.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If my tongue cannot entreat you to acquit me, will</span>
								<br/>
								<span>you command me to use my legs? and yet that were but</span>
								<br/>
								<span>light payment, to dance out of your debt. But a</span>
								<br/>
								<span>good conscience will make any possible satisfaction,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>and so would I. All the gentlewomen here have</span>
								<br/>
								<span>forgiven me: if the gentlemen will not, then the</span>
								<br/>
								<span>gentlemen do not agree with the gentlewomen, which</span>
								<br/>
								<span>was never seen before in such an assembly.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>One word more, I beseech you. If you be not too</span>
								<br/>
								<span>much cloyed with fat meat, our humble author will</span>
								<br/>
								<span>continue the story, with Sir John in it, and make</span>
								<br/>
								<span>you merry with fair Katharine of France: where, for</span>
								<br/>
								<span>any thing I know, Falstaff shall die of a sweat,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>unless already a’ be killed with your hard</span>
								<br/>
								<span>opinions; for Oldcastle died a martyr, and this is</span>
								<br/>
								<span>not the man. My tongue is weary; when my legs are</span>
								<br/>
								<span>too, I will bid you good night: and so kneel down</span>
								<br/>
								<span>before you; but, indeed, to pray for the queen.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
