<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Induction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="induction" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
			<h2>Induction</h2>
			<p>Warkworth. Before the castle</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Rumour</b>, painted full of tongues.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Rumour</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Open your ears; for which of you will stop</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The vent of hearing when loud Rumour speaks?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I, from the orient to the drooping west,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Making the wind my post-horse, still unfold</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The acts commenced on this ball of earth:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Upon my tongues continual slanders ride,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The which in every language I pronounce,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Stuffing the ears of men with false reports.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I speak of peace, while covert enmity</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Under the smile of safety wounds the world:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And who but Rumour, who but only I,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Make fearful musters and prepared defence,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Whiles the big year, swoln with some other grief,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Is thought with child by the stern tyrant war,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And no such matter? Rumour is a pipe</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Blown by surmises, jealousies, conjectures</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And of so easy and so plain a stop</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That the blunt monster with uncounted heads,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The still-discordant wavering multitude,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Can play upon it. But what need I thus</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My well-known body to anatomize</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Among my household? Why is Rumour here?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I run before King Harry’s victory;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Who in a bloody field by Shrewsbury</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Hath beaten down young Hotspur and his troops,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Quenching the flame of bold rebellion</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Even with the rebel’s blood. But what mean I</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To speak so true at first? my office is</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To noise abroad that Harry Monmouth fell</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Under the wrath of noble Hotspur’s sword,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And that the king before the Douglas’ rage</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Stoop’d his anointed head as low as death.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This have I rumour’d through the peasant towns</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Between that royal field of Shrewsbury</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And this worm-eaten hold of ragged stone,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where Hotspur’s father, old Northumberland,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Lies crafty-sick: the posts come tiring on,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And not a man of them brings other news</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Than they have learn’d of me: from Rumour’s tongues</span>
								<br/>
								<span>They bring smooth comforts false, worse than</span>
								<br/>
								<span>true wrongs. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
